---
comments: true
date: 2006-01-19 21:48:24
layout: post
slug: focus
title: Focus
wordpress_id: 13
categories:
- grad-school
- me
---

Maybe it's a little dramatic to think of it this way, but it has seemed like I have two computing personalities - the one that writes here about Macs, user-app programming and interfaces, goes to WWDC and hangs out with indie developers, and then the other one that actually gets paid - a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science who works on compilers, performance tools and high-performance computing at UCSD and SDSC. OK, I don't get paid much, but that's who I am in real life.

In order to get real work done, I've had to cut back on the first guy, shelving a few projects I would love to release, and dropping out of sight for months at a time on the BibDesk project, which doesn't seem to miss me, really.

What this means is that I've been pretty silent here lately, which I think is a shame, because I'm hugely vain and love attention. And yet I don't post personal details. This is evidence that I am complex and fascinating. Nevertheless, you really have got to hear what I've got to say.

In order to help you with that, I'm going to start posting about research topics, both my own and good papers I read or talks I go to, and hopefully some of it will be interesting. I have no idea how dedicated I will be to this, and it could get touchy - don't expect anything too controversial, since I do want to get hired and like a fool, I used my full name as the domain for my blog.

Coming up next - some thoughts on peer review.
